In this lesson, we begin with you the development of the logic of the grenade launcher, the launcher and the first thing we
will do is add the socket in the same way as we did for the rifle. We call it MuzzleSocket.
The name will be the same, so we will not need to redefine it
in the launcher class and also need to change the transformation so that it is located approximately
where the mesh was blowing. I selected the parameters in advance so that we would not suffer. Relative position (0, -15, 65).
The rotation is the same as that of the rifle socket (-90, 90, 0). Save asset.
We also need an additional actor. The launcher will fire real rockets.
Go to C ++ classes, to the weapon folder and create a new class.
Choosing an actor.
We call our rocket class STUPprojectile.
Click create class and go to visual studio. I cleaned up the class I just created as usual.
We don't need Tick, so bCanEverTick = false. Also I removed the tick function and cleaned up the comments.
We will add one component to C ++. This will be a spherical collision. We will decorate the appearance, design
in blueprints, since it is not so important whether the rocket will be some kind of mesh,
or some kind of special particle system. Therefore, we create property. The class that is responsible for the spherical collision
is called USphereComponent. You and I have already worked with the capsule collision.
This collision class is even simpler. It represents a sphere and with the help of this collision we
will understand whether we are somewhere or not. Add a forward declaration of this class.
Go to the .cpp file. Add a header file where the "Components / SphereComponent.h" spherical component is located.
Create it in the class constructor. We have done this many times already.
Let's set the radius for our collision. This is done using the InitSphereRadius function.
Set the radius of the sphere to 5 units. If something happens, we can always change it in the blueprint.
And let's make the collision component the root of our class.
This is enough for us for the current lesson, so let's go directly to
the launcher class and dynamically create this projectile class when fired.
First, let's override the StartFire and MakeShot functions. Their functionality will differ from the base class.
Next, we create a property, which will indicate the rocket class that we want to spawn.
For this we use the TSubclassOf <> template already known to us.
We specify the STUProjectile class.
We name the variable ProjectileClass.
And add the forward declaration of the projectile class.
Go to the .cpp file of the launcher class, create the body of the StartFire function.
This function will contain a call to MakeShot. Let's write this down right away and create the body of the MakeShot function.
Add the header file projectile.
We need to include another header file that contains GameplayStatics. We will use it to spawn our rocket.
Going into the MakeShot function, let's program the spawn logic.
So, we create a local variable of type FTransform, which will be responsible
for the initial transformation of our rocket. We name the variable SpawnTransform.
And we pass rotation to the initialization constructor. Rotation will be zero, so we can
use a static variable of the FRotator :: ZeroRotator class, and the starting position
will coincide with the position of the socket, so we can use the GetMuzzleWorldLocation function,
which is in our base class. The next variable is a pointer
to the rocket actor, let's call it Projectile. We will spawn using a special function
called BeginSpawnDeffered. We used it in the first chapter. It allows you to postpone the call
to the BeginPlay function. This will allow us to configure some parameters in this class. The function has
several arguments: the first is a pointer to the world. We pass GetWorld. The next argument is the class
we want to spawn. We pass the projectile class and also pass the transformation.
We leave the rest of the parameters by default, after that we will need to pass some parameters,
which we will talk about in the next lesson. Therefore, we leave comments here: set projectile params.
We need to complete the spawn in order for the BeginPlay function to be called.
Therefore, we need to call another function called FinishSpawningActor.
And we pass into it a pointer to the projectile actor and also SpawnTransform.
Let's check what we got. Our launcher should spawn projectile in the place where the muzzle of the weapon is.
We compile the project.
We got an error, let's see what's wrong.
I forgot to add .h in the projectle class when including the sphere component header file. We start again.
We inherit from our projectile class. Let's create a blueprint inheritor class.
We name it BP_STUProjectile and put it in the weapon folder.
Our blueprint has opened. We see a spherical collision that we created in C ++.
Let's add an elementary mesh for now, let it be a sphere as well. Click on Add Component.
In the search, enter Sphere and add the sphere mesh, which is available in the editor resources.
Also, the radius is quite large, so in the details panel, let's change the scale of our mesh to roughly
match the size of the collision. Let's put, for example, 0.095. We compile the blueprint and the last step we need to take is
to specify the class that we want to spawn in the launcher. Therefore, go to the weapon section
and specify BP_STUProjectile in PeojectileClass. We launch the project.
Checking the shooting. Our sphere spawns where the muzzle is. Everything works correctly.
Change the color of the sphere to make it look more contrasting.
In the root folder in the Content Browser, create a new folder called Materials.
Right-click to create a material. We call it M_BaseColor.
Open the material, click with the number 4 clamped anywhere on the graph. Add a 4D vector.
We connect to Base Color. Right-click on the node. Select convert to parametr and
name the parameter color. This is the simplest material, which is responsible only for color.
Next, right-click on the asset and select create material instance. We call MT_RedColor.
Activate the color parameter in details
and set some shade of red. Go back to the blueprint projectile and
set this material in details . We save. We start the project and our projectile is now red.
That's all in this lesson, in the next we'll continue and program the projectile movement.